# SolidStart

Everything you need to build a Solid project, powered by [`solid-start`](https://start.solidjs.com)

## What is included in this starter template:

- vitest + vite-plugin-doctest
- biomejs
- tailwindcss v4
- cloudflare + wrangler
- solid-ui https://www.solid-ui.com/docs/introduction
- drizzle ORM with D1 + drizzle-kit + seeding (for both local and remote)
- better-auth (with magic link that mocks email sending via server console.log)

Basic navbar and sidebar layouts are also provided. User avatar, login, logout menus are setup.

## How to get started

```bash
## pull repo
git clone https://github.com/taivo/solid-startup.git

## install dependencies
cd solid-startup
pnpm install

## initialize the local sqlite db
pnpm db:generate    # to generate migration files
pnpm db:migrate     # this will migrate database and make sure local D1 files exist
```

To simplify hosting this template as a demo, the magiclink hash is essentially just the email so we can
generate it on the client side as well as skip the actual emailing. To use this for your own project,
you must make changes to auth and not use any function in `lib/__deleteme.auth.ts` or any function/variable
prefixed with `__dangerousDemo`


## Directory structure

```
.
├── dev/
│   └── (...various helper for local dev & scripts)
├── drizzle/
│   ├── migrations/
│   ├── schema/
│   └── d1-http.ts
├── public/
├── scripts/
│   ├── db-reset.ts
│   ├── db-seed.ts
│   └── (...any other 1-off scripts)
└── src/
    ├── components/
    │   ├── app-shell/
    │   │   ├── navbar-layout/
    │   │   ├── sidebar-layout/
    │   │   ├── breadcrumbs.tsx
    │   │   └── (...app logos, branding, footer, etc.)
    │   ├── molecules/
    │   │   └── (...small generic components for this app)
    │   ├── ui/
    │   │   └── (...components generated by solid-ui)
    │   ├── user/
    │   │   └── (...user and auth-related components)
    │   ├── icon.tsx (one place for icons to make switching icon libraries easy)
    │   └── ...(other app-specific components)
    ├── lib/
    └── routes/
```


## Pro tips
- Look at package.json to see available pnpm scripts
- With `pnpm runscript` you can run arbitrary typescript files locally. Just define a file under
the `scripts` dir and export a default async function. See `scripts` dir for examples.
- Code under `dev` and `scripts` are only meant for running locally
(even if they may act on remote production systems with appropriate credentials)
- See `env.example` for relevant env vars used in scripts.
- For app related env vars, use `.dev.vars` or `wrangler.jsonc` as that's how Cloudflare wrangler works.


## Explanation for D1 and Drizzle setup
For deployed app, D1 setup is simple and uses `drizzle-orm/d1` with the Cloudflare D1 binding.

For drizzle-kit, drizzle-kit's own `d1-http` driver is used for remote database access (with appropriate credentials). For local access, we detect the local sqlite file stored by miniflare and pass that to drizzle-kit. The filename determination is based on (the miniflare v3.20230918.0 release notes)[https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare/releases/tag/v3.20230918.0]. As of May 2025, wrangler does not export this code so we copy and adapt it here.

For drizzle-seed or local scripts, we create our own `d1-http` driver for remote database access. This is mostly based on [drizzle-kit's connections.ts](https://github.com/drizzle-team/drizzle-orm/blob/main/drizzle-kit/src/cli/connections.ts#L742). To work with the local database, we use wrangler's `getPlatformProxy`.

Part of the complication is due to drizzle-kit having its own configuration system, and does not export its d1-http driver.

Finally, a note on migrations. Although we have a choice between `drizzle-kit migrate` and `wrangler d1 migrations apply`, we cannot
mix and match. Schema for the table that tracks migrations is different for each platform. Drizzle: `(id: numeric, hash:text, created_at: numeric)`. D1: `(id:int, name:text, applied_at:numeric)`. For this template, we use wrangler's approach because it has a bit better
DX. It doesn't require obtaining accountId or d1ApiToken (you do need to login to wrangler). This means you don't need to create
a D1 api token unless you use drizzle-studio. Also, migration name entries are more legible (although probably not as secure as hashes)


## Cloudflare setup resources
 - https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-solid-start-site/ (has bindings info)
 - https://ryanjc.com/blog/solidstart-cloudflare-pages/
 - https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/5912
 - https://github.com/solidjs/solid-start/issues/1833
 - https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/issues/4548 (understand the hash of the local D1 filename)
 - https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare/releases/tag/v3.20230918.0 (code to generate local D1 filename)

 ## Hope you find this useful!